Last updated
November 5, 2025
Download: PDF
Document
English
Notifications with a booking for influenza and COVID-19 immunizations are going out from October 7, 2025, and into November to everyone 6 months and older that is registered in the Get Vaccinated system.Immunization appointments start with those at highest risk of severe illness.Learn more about fall immunizations from the Government of British Columbia.
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is a respiratory illness caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to other respiratory illnesses, including influenza and the common cold.
On this page:
Get immunized against COVID-19SymptomsTestingRapid Antigen TestsTreatmentUseful resources
Show moreless
Get immunized against COVID-19
Immunization is safest and most effective way to protect yourself against severe illness from COVID-19.Updated COVID-19 vaccines are available free of charge for B.C. residents during the 2025-26 immunization program. These vaccines help protect against serious illness from COVID-19.To get immunized against COVID-19 visit Government of British Columbia: COVID-19 immunizations.To learn more about COVID-19 vaccines, vaccine recommendations and managing common side effect, visit HealthLink BC File #124a - COVID-19 mRNA vaccines.
Symptoms
To learn about COVID-19 symptoms, what to do if you are feeling ill, and who may be at higher risk for complications, visit:BC Centre for Disease Control: If You Have COVID-19BC Centre for Disease Control: Symptoms
Testing
A COVID-19 test is recommended when its result will help you and your health care provider make decisions about your treatment or care. For more information about who needs testing, visit: BC Centre for Disease Control: Testing for COVID-19.Some symptoms could be signs of other conditions or medical issues and you may need to seek medical care, even if it's not related to COVID-19. If you feel unwell and are unsure about your symptoms, contact your health care provider or call 8-1-1.
Rapid Antigen Tests
You can use a rapid antigen test at home to find out if you have COVID-19. The results will be ready in less than 20 minutes. Test kits are available free of charge at some community pharmacies. Once the existing supply of free tests runs out, some pharmacies may offer them for you to purchase.A positive rapid antigen test is acceptable for getting treatment, if you are eligible. Learn more about how to use a Rapid Testing kit and what the test results mean: BC Centre for Disease Control: Rapid Testing
Treatment
There are some specific treatments available for COVID-19. For more information, visit BC Centre for Disease Control: Treatments.To find out if treatment may be right for you, visit the Province of British Columbia: COVID-19 testing and treatments page.If your infant is less than 3 months of age and has a fever or shows signs of illness, they should be seen by a health care provider. For more information, visit BC Centre for Disease Control: COVID-19 illness in children.For additional information on COVID-19 treatments, visit:BCCDC: Patient Information about Paxlovid (PDF, 163KB)BCCDC: Questions and Answers: Nirmatrelvir/ritonavir (Paxlovid) (PDF, 180KB)BCCDC: Patient Information about Remdesivir (PDF, 210KB)Province of British Columbia: Paxlovid for B.C. residentsWhen seeing a health care provider, please tell them:Your symptomsWhere you have been travelling or livingIf you had close or prolonged contact with a sick person, especially if they had a fever, cough or difficulty breathing
Useful resources
For a list of trusted sources that HealthLinkBC uses to provide British Columbians with health information and advice, visit www.HealthLinkBC.ca.For information and updates on COVID-19 in other languages, visit:COVID-19 immunizationsAmerican Sign Language videos are also available.If you have concerns or questions about your health, contact 8-1-1 at any time or speak with your health care provider.